---
layout: default
title: iPhone app
category: projects
---
#Shellac
I've been working on my iPhone app as a personal project for a few months now. Obviously, mobile devices are already becoming one of the most important platforms. I certainly don't think that iOS is synonymous with "mobile", or that the future of mobile app development is necessarily *native* app development. PhoneGap, or something like it, seems like the best choice for almost everything. (I'm not a game developer.) But I thought it was important to take a deep dive into Objective-C and the Human Interface Guideline stuff,  just to get a feel for what the ecosystem is like.

I'll talk a little more about what my app does when I have it shipped to the app store.

I have heard a lot of kvetching about Objective-C as a language. The fundamental thing about ObjC, in my opinion, is that the language is very tightly bound to the XCode IDE. I know that's not literally, absolutely true, and that I could do everything with a text editor and some make files, but that approach is a long, hard and lonely uphill climb. And, even if the build process was a little more straightforward, the verbosity of the language makes autocompletion almost essential. If I was looking up method names and typing out everything by hand, I would have given up after a few classes. I am one of those moldy old figs who prefers to use vim and ant as my dev environment, but I grudgingly admit that XCode 4.x is pretty smooth compared to other IDEs I have used.    

Now, in retrospect, the phonegap mode, where the GUI is written with HTML5 + CSS makes the most sense to me. For a while, I thought about using some kind of config file to specify my user interface. I'd parse the config file to figure out where to draw the widgets, etc., so that the interface could be easily re-skinned and localized. It did not take too much thinking along these lines to realize my idea was to re-invent HTML. Save the native code for the cool stuff, and wrap it in a javascript plugin. It doesn't cover every conceivable scenario--for example, sophisticated use of gestures--but it's pretty easy to see how almost anything could be managed with a PhoneGap-based interface. 
